Now last but not least, to conclude that if statement part, I want to introduce the switch case statement,
which is a new statement but kind of related to if statements.
It's great in situations like this, where you have multiple equality checks because that's where it really
shines and where it is the most helpful and where you want to execute different code based on the condition
that was met.
Now you can also use switch case statements with other conditions where you don't check for equality
but there, you save less code and they often are harder to read.
So you typically use switch case statements or you can use them as a replacement for if, else if statements,
with a lot of else if cases if you always check for equality and you're just checking multiple different
values.
So let me show you how you could translate this long block of if and else if blocks into a switch case
statement. For that you use the switch keyword which is built into Javascript and the switch keyword doesn't
take a condition but it takes a value, a single value,
so in this case the event, then you add curly braces and no semicolon after them and then you can add
the case keyword to define a case.
The case now is a concrete value that could be stored in this variable or constant or in this case, parameter,
so for example here, log event player attack. Of course you don't have to use a constant here which holds
the value, you could hardcode it in here, doesn't have to be a string
either, you could be looking for a number but by default, this looks for equality here.
Now if you're interested in some ideas of how you could use a switch case statement with greater than
and so on, you will find resources attached to this video
but this is the most straightforward way of using it,
the easiest read way, the way for which it was invented I would say
and the way where I would use it, if you have other conditions that include more complex conditions, greater
than and so on or combined conditions,
I would always go for an if statement. If you have an if statement like this though, where you always have
only one condition and you check for equality, then a switch case statement might be an idea.
So how do you use it?
You see I added a colon after this case definition and then typically in a new line, you define which
code should be executed
if this case is met,
so if ev has a value of log event player attack. Also worth pointing out that behind the scenes, switch
always use the triple equal sign operator to compare that,
so it only will go into that case if the event holds log event player attack, both regarding the value
but also the type,
so if event really is a string in this case because that's what's stored in log event player attack.
So now we have that case defined,
now we define the code that should be executed if that is the case,
so in this case I want to adjust my log entry target and then you can define a second case, in this case
a case here that the value stored in ev is log event player strong attack and then again, colon and then
the code that should execute.
So either you again just manipulate target or as I do it down there, you create a brand new object which
is stored in log entry.
Now very important, you also should add another special keyword after each case and that's the break
keyword followed by a semicolon.
Now we haven't seen the break keyword before, it's a keyword built into Javascript and in the end what
it tells Javascript is that if that case has been handled, no other case should be handled because by
default, switch case statements do something which is called fall through, which means if you made it
into that case, then that case would be executed as well because the default behavior is actually that
if it made it into a case, it will also execute the cases below it automatically,
even if these don't match the value. Sometimes this is exactly what you want, sometimes you want to have
the same code for multiple cases and you could achieve that by not defining any code for a case,
then thanks to that fall through mechanism, if this case is met, that goes right to the next case and executes
this code but in other cases, you only really want to execute one piece of code for each case and then
you add the break keyword to tell Javascript after this is finished don't evaluate any other cases, just
leave the switch case statement, we are done.
So now let's also add break here and then again add another case and that would be the log event
monster attack.
So let's add this here and thereafter that code which we had in this else if block
and then add yet another case here,
now here for the player heal
so let's add that here.
Also don't forget the break statement here, I did forget it
so make sure you don't,
so log event player heal,
there of course I'll grab this code which I have down there in the else if block, add it here below case
and add the break
keyword
and then add the last case
and that's our event
game over so
let's add that here like this, also of course copy the code we have down there, add that here and maybe
also add break here, of course here though you could omit it because we have no other case below it.
Now in switch case statement, you also have another special keyword and that's default, followed by a colon
that allows you to define some default code in case no case is met and therefore you make it into no
entry point here,
then you would add a default to still execute some code maybe in case no other case is met
so here we could set log entry to an empty object for example.
Now of course that being said, now I can comment out the if, else if statement here and just keep my battle
log push code line
and with that we have a valid switch case statement.
Now is that better than if and else if?
Well if you have such a strict equality comparisons, it can be a bit cleaner to read and therefore it's
a real alternative which I tend to prefer
but ultimately, you can also stick to if/else if you prefer that, if you find that easier to read and especially
if you have more complex conditions, multiple combined conditions or greater than checks and so on,
you definitely want to use if/else if else blocks and statements instead of the switch case statement
because that really only shines for strict equality checks.